[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The first hotel in space
could be coming sooner than you
think.
The hopes and challenges
of private space tourism.
This is "Gaia News."
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Earlier this year, the
Orbital Assembly Corporation
revealed details about their
planned Voyager Station,
a rotating space
station and hotel
they say will create varying
levels of artificial gravity
and will be able to
accommodate up to 400 guests.
The craft will rotate
in low Earth orbit
and be accessed by shuttle.
The company plans to begin
assembly of the 650 foot
wide spacecraft in 2025 with the
goal of human visitors by 2027.
They say the station
has been designed
to accommodate businesses,
researchers, and, quote, space
tourists, who want to
experience life on a large space
station with the
comfort of low gravity
and the feel of a luxury hotel.
Amenities include 24 habitation
modules, restaurant and bar
modules, and a gym that
will hold concerts as well
as sports.
For civilian space enthusiasts,
this may seem like a dream.
But there are many
challenges ahead
before this dream is a reality.
Astronomer and "Gaia News"
contributor Mark D'Antonio
on the likelihood of
meeting that 2027 goal.
>> I would say 2027
is probably early.
There will be setbacks-- there
are with every single project.
They will be using technology
that's not tested, all right?
They can't use tested
technology because there
are no space station
technologies out there now.
They're going to have
to completely build
these from scratch.
I just think that 2027
is a little ambitious.
But if they can muster
the right acumen,
they can actually
get it done, and I'd
be really interested to see it.
>> Assuming it can be built, the
craft will operate in low Earth
orbit, which might make
it easier to access.
But what other challenges
does low Earth orbit present?
>> Low Earth orbit also has
other issues that are kind
of hidden, that you
don't think about.
One of them is other orbiting
space junk that's actually
moving from orbit to orbit.
If it's in the
same orbit as you,
it's moving about the
same speed as you.
So that's not the danger.
The danger is something that's
crossing through the orbit.
That is something that could
literally rend the space
station into pieces.
A bolt that long traveling
about 14,000 miles an hour
is not going to get stopped
by a piece of aluminum, OK?
It's actually and
go right through it
and continue through it
and go through anything
else in between, including
guests if they're there.
What else are their issues?
Well, the other issues
there are micrometeorites.
The ISS, the International
Space Station,
has had damage done to
it by micrometeorites,
little tiny pieces
of space junk that
come in at tens of
thousands of miles an hour
and just puncture things.
There's images of the
solar panels on the ISS
that are literally
torn and shredded,
and they're just
hanging and dangling
because these were destroyed
by a micrometeorite hit.
And these don't
come from space junk
that we can follow or monitor.
These come from nature.
We can't see these
micrometeorites.
However, I will say this.
If we don't do things
like this, then humanity
is doomed to just stay
on our blue marble.
I don't think that's
the best place for us.
>> We've seen a rush of private
investment in space technology
in recent years.
What does this
private space race
hold for the future of
off-planet exploration?
>> Commercialization of space
in the private sector is
inevitable.
And I actually think it's
good for the continuation
or the extension of
humankind's presence in space.
Yes, people say, oh, they're
just big corporations going out
into space.
Maybe so.
But guess what?
Can you do it on your own?
You can't do it on your own, OK?
You have to do it
with a big company.
So yes, big companies are going
to be the first when it comes
to private space exploration.
There will be
private space rovers.
There'll be private moon rovers.
There'll be private trips.
And that's something
we're just going
to have to get used to, because
that is how humanity is going
to expand to the stars.
>> Many astronauts have reported
being awestruck when they see
the Earth from space--
the Earth with no borders,
no wars, no conflict.
The Earth from space has been
described as tiny, beautiful,
and fragile.
This phenomenon has been
dubbed the overview effect.
If space tourism
becomes a reality,
how could this affect
the future of our planet?
>> I think that if we could just
put everybody into orbit one
time in their lives, then the
overview effect would have
a-- it would definitely take a
positive toll on their lives,
and they will always look
at the Earth differently.
>> The Voyager Station is a
monumental task within a short
time frame.
But even if they don't
meet the deadline, who
knows what
discoveries they might
make while trying
to reach that goal.
If you'd like to book a room
on the first hotel in space,
they are taking reservations.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."